Changes in Silva 3.0 API
========================

This document tracks the major changes between Silva 2.3 and Silva 3.0.

Content
-------

- :term:`ZCML` based registration have been removed (because it was
  unused).

- *SilvaViews* have been removed. All :term:`SMI` interfaces must be
  built using forms, in order to work in the new Javascript based
  interface.

- *FileSystemSite* have been removed. The ``globals`` folder and
  ``service_resources`` doesn't exist anymore.

- XSTL renderers have been removed (they were only available for
  ``Producs.SilvaDocument`` that is deprecated and not available to
  create new content in 3.0).

- ``CatalogedVersion`` and ``CatalogVersionedContent`` have been
  removed. Please use instead
  :py:class:`~Products.Silva.Version.Version` and
  :py:class:`~Products.Silva.VersionedContent.VersionedContent`. They
  are catalogued by default.

- The method ``view`` and ``preview`` from
  :py:interface:`~silva.core.interfaces.content.ISilvaObject` have
  been removed. To render a content, please invoke the
  ``@@content.html`` view on the content. The preview will be
  automatically selected if you are in preview mode.

- Silva legacy layouts, built in ZODB, are no longer supported nor
  available. None of the previously script creating in ZODB are
  available.

- The test helpers ``Products.Silva.tests.helpers`` have been
  removed. You can access test fixture directly from the test layer
  now and using standard :term:`Zope adapter` defined in Silva for the
  other helpers (see
  :py:interface:`~silva.core.interfaces.adapters.IPublicationWorkflow`).


Code sources
------------


- ``REQUEST.model`` is no longer available. Code sources must rely on
  the parameters ``model`` and ``version`` that are given to them
  along the regular options.

- Options are properly provided to code sources: a Formulator Boolean
  field will give you a boolean in your script, not a string, same for
  an integer, or a list of values. Reference fields returns directly
  the object which have been selected, or None, or a list of selected
  objects if the multiple option was previously activated in the
  field.

- LookupWindow Formulator field have been replaced with a Reference
  Formulator field.
